README.md, before:

## kaptan ##

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/emre/kaptan.png)](https://travis-ci.org/emre/kaptan)&nbsp; <img src= "https://pypip.in/v/kaptan/badge.png"> &nbsp; <img src="https://pypip.in/d/kaptan/badge.png">

configuration parser.

### installation 

```sh
$ pip install kaptan
```

or add kaptan directory to the your path.

### usage ###

**supported handlers**

- dict
- json
- yaml
- .ini
- python file
    
**default (dict) handler**

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan()
config.import_config({
    'environment': 'DEV',
    'redis_uri': 'redis://localhost:6379/0',
    'debug': False,
    'pagination': {
        'per_page': 10,
        'limit': 20,
    }
})

print config.get("pagination.limit")

# output: 20
```

**json handler**

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan(handler="json")
config.import_config('{"everything": 42}')

print config.get("everything")
# output: 42
```

**yaml handler**

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan()
config.import_config("""
product:
  price:
    value: 12.65
    currency_list:
      - TL
      - EURO
""")
print config.get("product.price.currency_list.0")
# output: TL
```

or you can get from directly from the filename:

```py
config.import_config("configuration.yaml")
```

**.ini handler**

config.ini

```ini
[development]
database_uri = mysql://root:123456@localhost/posts

[production]
database_uri = mysql://poor_user:poor_password@localhost/poor_posts
```

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan(handler="ini")
config.import_config('config.ini')

print config.get("production.database_uri")
# output: mysql://poor_user:poor_password@localhost/poor_posts
```

**file handler**

config.py

```py
DATABASE = 'mysql://root:123456@localhost/posts'
DEBUG = False
PAGINATION = {
    'per_page': 10,
    'limit': 20,
}
```

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan(handler="file")
config.import_config('config')

print config.get("DEBUG")
# output: False
```

## exporting configuration

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan(handler="file")
config.import_config({
    'environment': 'DEV',
    'redis_uri': 'redis://localhost:6379/0',
    'debug': False,
    'pagination': {
        'per_page': 10,
        'limit': 20,
    }
})

```

```py
print config.export("yaml")
```

**output**:

```yaml
debug: false
environment: DEV
pagination: {limit: 20, per_page: 10}
redis_uri: redis://localhost:6379/0
```

```py
print config.export("json")
```

output unindented json. ``.export`` accepts kwargs which pass into
[json.dumps](http://docs.python.org/2/library/json.html#json.dump).

```py
print config.export("json", indent=4)
```

**output**:

```json
{
    "environment": "DEV",
    "debug": false,
    "pagination": {
        "per_page": 10,
        "limit": 20
    },
    "redis_uri": "redis://localhost:6379/0"
}
```

``config.export('yaml')`` also supports the [kwargs for pyyaml](http://pyyaml.org/wiki/PyYAMLDocumentation#Dumper).

## cli

exporting (defaults to json)

```sh
$ echo "environment: DEV" > config.yaml
$ kaptan config.yaml --export json > config.json
$ cat config.json
{"environment": "DEV"}
```

getting a value

```sh
$ kaptan config.yaml --key environment
DEV
```

specifying the handler

```sh
$ mv config.yaml config.settings
$ kaptan config.settings --export json
Traceback (most recent call last):
  ...
RuntimeError: Unable to determine handler
$ kaptan config.settings --handler yaml --export json
{"environment": "DEV"}
```

## running tests

With `py.test`:

```sh
$ py.test tests.py
```

or just:

```sh
$ python -m unittest discover -v
```

## contributors

- [Cenk Altı](http://github.com/cenkalti)
- [Wesley Bitter](http://github.com/Wessie)
- [Mark Steve](http://github.com/marksteve)
- [Tony Narlock](http://github.com/tony)
- [Berker Peksag](http://github.com/berkerpeksag)

Commit message:

yaml safe_dump with export('yaml', safe=True)

README.md, after:

## kaptan ##

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/emre/kaptan.png)](https://travis-ci.org/emre/kaptan)&nbsp; <img src= "https://pypip.in/v/kaptan/badge.png"> &nbsp; <img src="https://pypip.in/d/kaptan/badge.png">

configuration parser.

### installation 

```sh
$ pip install kaptan
```

or add kaptan directory to the your path.

### usage ###

**supported handlers**

- dict
- json
- yaml
- .ini
- python file
    
**default (dict) handler**

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan()
config.import_config({
    'environment': 'DEV',
    'redis_uri': 'redis://localhost:6379/0',
    'debug': False,
    'pagination': {
        'per_page': 10,
        'limit': 20,
    }
})

print config.get("pagination.limit")

# output: 20
```

**json handler**

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan(handler="json")
config.import_config('{"everything": 42}')

print config.get("everything")
# output: 42
```

**yaml handler**

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan()
config.import_config("""
product:
  price:
    value: 12.65
    currency_list:
      - TL
      - EURO
""")
print config.get("product.price.currency_list.0")
# output: TL
```

or you can get from directly from the filename:

```py
config.import_config("configuration.yaml")
```

**.ini handler**

config.ini

```ini
[development]
database_uri = mysql://root:123456@localhost/posts

[production]
database_uri = mysql://poor_user:poor_password@localhost/poor_posts
```

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan(handler="ini")
config.import_config('config.ini')

print config.get("production.database_uri")
# output: mysql://poor_user:poor_password@localhost/poor_posts
```

**file handler**

config.py

```py
DATABASE = 'mysql://root:123456@localhost/posts'
DEBUG = False
PAGINATION = {
    'per_page': 10,
    'limit': 20,
}
```

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan(handler="file")
config.import_config('config')

print config.get("DEBUG")
# output: False
```

## exporting configuration

```py
config = kaptan.Kaptan(handler="file")
config.import_config({
    'environment': 'DEV',
    'redis_uri': 'redis://localhost:6379/0',
    'debug': False,
    'pagination': {
        'per_page': 10,
        'limit': 20,
    }
})

```

```py
print config.export("yaml")
```

**output**:

```yaml
debug: false
environment: DEV
pagination: {limit: 20, per_page: 10}
redis_uri: redis://localhost:6379/0
```

```py
print config.export("json")
```

output unindented json. ``.export`` accepts kwargs which pass into
[json.dumps](http://docs.python.org/2/library/json.html#json.dump).

```py
print config.export("json", indent=4)
```

**output**:

```json
{
    "environment": "DEV",
    "debug": false,
    "pagination": {
        "per_page": 10,
        "limit": 20
    },
    "redis_uri": "redis://localhost:6379/0"
}
```

``config.export('yaml')`` also supports the [kwargs for pyyaml](http://pyyaml.org/wiki/PyYAMLDocumentation#Dumper).

New in Version 0.5.7: ``config.export('yaml', safe=True)`` will use ``.safe_dump``.

## cli

exporting (defaults to json)

```sh
$ echo "environment: DEV" > config.yaml
$ kaptan config.yaml --export json > config.json
$ cat config.json
{"environment": "DEV"}
```

getting a value

```sh
$ kaptan config.yaml --key environment
DEV
```

specifying the handler

```sh
$ mv config.yaml config.settings
$ kaptan config.settings --export json
Traceback (most recent call last):
  ...
RuntimeError: Unable to determine handler
$ kaptan config.settings --handler yaml --export json
{"environment": "DEV"}
```

## running tests

With `py.test`:

```sh
$ py.test tests.py
```

or just:

```sh
$ python -m unittest discover -v
```

## contributors

- [Cenk Altı](http://github.com/cenkalti)
- [Wesley Bitter](http://github.com/Wessie)
- [Mark Steve](http://github.com/marksteve)
- [Tony Narlock](http://github.com/tony)
- [Berker Peksag](http://github.com/berkerpeksag)
